#summary Documentation

= Level =

Levels are a representation of how much experience an [Avatar Avatar] has acquired over time. Higher levels grant access to purchase better [Species Species] from the [Shop Shop].

== Details ==
  * Formula for amount of experience needed to level up:
    * L(n) = 1000 `*` [1.25 ^ (n - 1)]
    * i.e. Lv 1 to Lv 2 requires 1000 experience
  * Leveling up:
    * Grants access to more [Species] to diversify a player's [Environment]
    * Unlocks [Research] at level 5.
    * Adds ability points (See [Avatar]) to the [Avatar].

== Experience ==

Experience can be acquired by fulfilling different conditions throughout the game. Reaching a certain number of experience triggers a level up. The conditions are as follows:

  * Reaching a specific Environment Score
  * Purchasing Species from the Shop
  * Playing for a certain amount of time
  * Change in months

== Server Implementation ==

`>> GameServer.java | Method: updateExperience()`

Whenever a player receives experience, the server calls the `updateExperience()` method to process the amount of experience they should be receiving.

Using the total amount of experience the player has accumulated, it checks with the ExpTable using the `getLevel()` method to determine if the player has reached enough experience to level up.

If the player does level up, it follows with another check to determine what species the player can buy from the Shop.

Whenever the player levels up, a ResponseUpdateLevel will be sent to the client, to level up. All experience gained through this method will also be sent to the client through ResponseUpdateXP.

=== References ===

  * Server Class References
    * `core/GameServer.java`
    * `networking/response/ResponseUpdateLevel.java`
    * `networking/response/ResponseUpdateXP.java`
    * `utility/ExpTable.java`