#summary Test Team Milestones
#labels Java,Python,Featured

= Test Team Milestones (as of 10/11/11) =

=== Milestone 0 (09/19/11-10/10/11) ===
- Learn the Game concept thoroughly.

- What is testing, types, what we need to do.

- Learn how to write test cases.

- Unit testing in python.

- Go over the client’s architecture.

- Learn and understand the working of server (use the draft Xuyuan has made).

-  Dan's document on lobby is good. we shall be preparing a document for other components as well

=== Milestone 1 (10/11/11-10/24/11) ===


- Understand the pseudocode of client team.

- Write test cases for testable components 
    
- Understand the use cases and workflows of server.

- Test case for the server functions.

- Test the models and actors of art team.

- Test for the missing functionality by checking and keeping updates on the client and server team. This helps in proper task division and avoids confusion.

- Provide Test data to Client team (3D module) when the pseudocode is ready and they list what is required.


Note: Somewhere between M0 and M1 depending on how quickly we are able to learn the basic things of M0 we will need to define exit criteria for our game.

=== Milestone 2 (10/25/11-11/08/11) ===

- test for client server communication & web service communication

- By now some of the modules in client must be ready for testing.

- Perform blackbox testing for each module.

- Whitebox module for the integrated modules.

- How well models and actors perform (look and feel, performance, response time, etc) when used in the code.

=== Milestone 3 (11/09/11-11/23/11) ===

- Continue M2 for all of the available modules. (i.e., ready for testing)

- Test the game as a whole, find bugs and send it to the developers.

- Pass/Fail test for the bugs that were fixed.

=== Milestone 4 (11/24/11-End of semester)===

- Test the launch platform and packaging.