#summary Documentation

= Zone =

A Zone contains it's own [SimulationEngine] and is responsible for managing all species within it's boundaries.  Although species ultimately belong to 1 [Environment], each Zone is treated as a separate ecosystem.

== Details ==

  * Each Zone has its own [Species].
  * Each Zone has its own [SimulationEngine].
  * Each Zone has 0 or 1 [Water_Source Water Source] which provides water for [Species] in that Zone.
  * [Species] can only interact with other [Species] within the same Zone. This interaction includes:
    * Eating a Species
    * Spreading disease to a [Species] (Disease can only spread outside of a Zone if an infected animal [Species] moves to another Zone).
    * Species must get water from a Water Source in the same Zone.

== Species Cleanup ==

On client-side, all organisms ordered to die must go through a death phase that consists of an animation, if any. A cleanup process occurs every so often to take care of all these dead organisms.

Every Zone consists of a task dedicated to free these dead organisms from memory.

=== Client Implementation ===

`>> Zone3D.py | Method: updateRoutine()`

This task called `updateRoutine` sole purpose is to scan this Zone for organisms that have completed their death phase. There are two loops where one scans for animals and another for plants.

The process is quite simple. Organisms have something called a life status, so whenever one dies, it is marked dead. Both loops will look for organisms that are marked dead and if any is found, the methods `removeAnimal` or `removePlant` is called to remove it internally.

But before it does so, it will generates events using the `setTotalAnimalList` and `setTotalPlantList` methods to update the [Stats Stats] interface with the right population count.

`>> Zone3D.py | Method: removeAnimal(), removePlant()`

These methods will remove any record of those organisms as well as calling the proper Panda3D methods to remove them from the scene.

== References ==

  * Client Class References
    * `main/MainLobby/World/World3D/Zone3D.py`